forge-docs-book/src/todo.md, before:

# Main Todo Page

```admonish todo title="TODO: Tim"
List of the TODOs that I have flagged for Tim to review
- [Overview](building-models/overview.md) - The language that I used may or may not be accurate and/or the best way of explaining things. I took a stab at it to the best of my ability but definitely have some missing pieces and potentially some innacuracies. Also some stuff that's missing and needs completion.
- Currently doesn't talk about the motivation/benefits for using models, perhaps its just a matter of transplating Lecture 1 content into docs?
- What is a better section name for `Built-Ins`?
- Connect the idea of Constraints and
  - Mention the overlap between Cardinality/Membership Formulas and Multiplicity.
- During phone discussion: Let's go through one at a time and find a good place for it in the documentation.

```

```admonish todo title="TODO"
- [ ] Add general overview page - what is a model? what is a predicate? What is an instance? What is a predicate? Very brief high level overview page (all material obviously covered in class, but supplementary nonetheless- maybe even pull from class notes?)
- [ ] Refactor Sigs page v1
  - [x] Sigs Basic
  - [x] Fields Basic
  - [ ] Elaborate 'Types' on Sigs Page
  - [ ] Provide Clearer Description for 'Field Multiplicity' on Sigs Page
  - [ ] Provide Clearer Context for "Low level details" - seems out of place and confusing. Maybe move it in addition to expanding upon it
- [ ] Provide Description for 'Arity' on Sigs Page (I would even consider adding a whole new page/entry for 'Arity' since its a fundamental concept that will also appear thoughtout, in relational expressions, ...,  in certain error messages and such)
- [ ] ...
- [ ] Go through the rest of the pages and expand this TODO list
```

```admonish todo title="TODO (mdbook related)"
- [ ] Add a preprocessor/backend for a page table-of-contents for page navigation
  - mdbook-pagetoc [https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc](https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc)
  - (However, [https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc](https://github.com/zjp-CN/mdbook-theme) seems to be more fleshed out?)
- [ ] Add a preprocessor/backend to improve search functionality
  - [https://github.com/ang-zeyu/infisearch](https://github.com/ang-zeyu/infisearch)
- *Reference List for a bunch of third-party plugins:*
  - [https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/wiki/Third-party-plugins](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/wiki/Third-party-plugins)
- Admonish Library reference: [https://tommilligan.github.io/mdbook-admonish/reference.html](https://tommilligan.github.io/mdbook-admonish/reference.html)

```

Commit message:

checkpoint: progress point 2 pre-meeting

forge-docs-book/src/todo.md, after:

# Main Todo Page

Main tasks for Jan 4 meeting:

- Get Tim up to speed on mdbooks process (~3-5 mins)
- Discuss current state of docs, point out current flags (~3-5 mins)
- Walk through docs and try and get a better sense for refactoring structure (~20 mins)

```admonish todo title="TODO: Tim"
List of the TODOs that I have flagged for Tim to review
- [Overview](building-models/overview.md) - The language that I used may or may not be accurate and/or the best way of explaining things. I took a stab at it to the best of my ability but definitely have some missing pieces and potentially some innacuracies. Also some stuff that's missing and needs completion.
- Currently doesn't talk about the motivation/benefits for using models, perhaps its just a matter of transplating Lecture 1 content into docs?
- What is a better section name for `Built-Ins`?
- Connect the idea of Constraints and
  - Mention the overlap between Cardinality/Membership Formulas and Multiplicity.
- During phone discussion: Let's go through one at a time and find a good place for it in the documentation.

```

```admonish todo title="TODO"
- [ ] Add general overview page - what is a model? what is a predicate? What is an instance? What is a predicate? Very brief high level overview page (all material obviously covered in class, but supplementary nonetheless- maybe even pull from class notes?)
- [ ] Refactor Sigs page v1
  - [x] Sigs Basic
  - [x] Fields Basic
  - [ ] Elaborate 'Types' on Sigs Page
  - [ ] Provide Clearer Description for 'Field Multiplicity' on Sigs Page
  - [ ] Provide Clearer Context for "Low level details" - seems out of place and confusing. Maybe move it in addition to expanding upon it
- [ ] Provide Description for 'Arity' on Sigs Page (I would even consider adding a whole new page/entry for 'Arity' since its a fundamental concept that will also appear thoughtout, in relational expressions, ...,  in certain error messages and such)
- [ ] ...
- [ ] Go through the rest of the pages and expand this TODO list
```

```admonish todo title="TODO (mdbook related)"
- [ ] Add a preprocessor/backend for a page table-of-contents for page navigation
  - mdbook-pagetoc [https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc](https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc)
  - (However, [https://github.com/slowsage/mdbook-pagetoc](https://github.com/zjp-CN/mdbook-theme) seems to be more fleshed out?)
- [ ] Add a preprocessor/backend to improve search functionality
  - [https://github.com/ang-zeyu/infisearch](https://github.com/ang-zeyu/infisearch)
- *Reference List for a bunch of third-party plugins:*
  - [https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/wiki/Third-party-plugins](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/wiki/Third-party-plugins)
- Admonish Library reference: [https://tommilligan.github.io/mdbook-admonish/reference.html](https://tommilligan.github.io/mdbook-admonish/reference.html)

```
